So, I'm going to talk today about auto
research. I'll define what that is in a
little bit. You can see the search part
is underlined. Uh, a little bit about
me. This is kind of more about my style.
I've done search at like probably a
hundred places in some capacity in the
past. I like to say I'm still trying to
figure out how search works. uh because
it's honestly something that keeps
changing all the time. Now agents are
changing everything as I'll talk about
in a second. I really believe in trying
to be honest and honest is actually
really hard because sometimes you
underell something and sometimes you
oversell something. So feel that's
something I try to do a lot and I am
very much into embarrassing myself as a
service which leads to kind of a lot of
what I do including uh I'll be teaching
just some promotional stuff. So I'll be
teaching a free search 101 class
actually starts Friday if anyone's
interested. This is all done through
Maven. You I do a lot of stuff on Maven
just like Trey. Uh definitely come hang
out. This is just a series of Maven
lightning lessons. Each of these is an
hour and you're welcome to come uh
spread out this week and next week. Uh I
also as many people know I teach a
course on agentic search. So agentic
search is probably uh as people are
realizing a much bigger deal than rag
ever was. So rag and just chunking and
searching on chunks is kind of an
extension of what we've always done.
Aentic search is a completely new thing
where you have something actually in the
loop problem solving on behalf of the
user with tools. So uh definitely come
check it out. I'm teaching this in two
weeks and if you want to fund the tokens
that went into this talk
uh thank you. My wife has not seen that
does not is not aware of how many tokens
get spent on these kinds of experiments.
So the more the more people that come
the better the less awkward that
conversation is.
And then so this course uh is in May uh
late May to early June. And of course
Trey and I teach a great course. I would
say the agentic search course is very
much trying to trying to look forward
into this space and how this constantly
changing space that is just I have to re
it's a lot to keep the materials up to
date. Uh and then AI powered search is a
bit more of what is mature and actually
with in production systems these days at
like large scale search infra uh search
systems and so Trey and I of course are
teaching this and as we as you all know
there's a discount code haststack there
for 30% off and um yeah come check out
the course if you do buy a book today or
tomorrow we'll give you a signed copy of
the book so uh check it out. So that'll
be in July.
So I'm going to talk about auto research
today. The basic idea of auto research,
it ca comes from Carpathy. I think
people have been actually doing this
since there have been coding agents, but
he kind of put a good name on it. Uh
which basically you have a coding agent
and you're instead of using a coding
agent to like get it to pass some tests,
still needs to pass tests. You're
instead doing something where you're
trying to optimize a metric.
And of course a metric I've I've seen
from Shopify they work on optimizing
their backend for example uh to try to
find uh performance optimizations for
Carpathy. He was trying to optimize a
model and the model architecture like a
PyTorch model. I'm going to talk about
optimizing ranking code. So Python code
that tries to return relevant results.
Um, and the reason you might want to do
this is in some ways it's a really easy
deployment story. If you do a learning
to rank model or you train some big
cross- encoder model or whatever, then
what you're basically going to have to
do all the time, the conversation you
have every time you train some new type
of model is, well, where do I deploy
that? And there's always a new inference
service to build. Uh the nice thing
about auto research, you're just
deploying it to your just adding you're
not adding a new piece of
infrastructure. You're just making
something you already deploy better. So
that's one nice thing about it. And
today what I'm going to do, I'm I would
say I'm a fairly bottomup thinker. Like
I tend to get in [snorts] the code and
show a lot of code in my talks. Um I
don't know if we're still allowed to
look at code these days, but I like to
I'm still going to do it. Uh so you if
you all want to still look at code, come
hang out with me. We can hang out and uh
the 10 of us that are left. So uh yeah,
we're going to explore auto research in
the ways that I've looked at and
explored. This is of course a very new
new and interesting area. And I'm going
to give you my sense of auto research
and ranking and how some how it works
and the lessons I've learned in doing
this work.
A lot of this is experimental work with
open data sets. And like anything in
search, a lot of it really depends on
knowing that your judgments and
evaluations are correct, which is
honestly probably 60% of the effort that
many search teams actually do. But once
you have some data, you can do some fun
things like this. And really, it comes
down to this uh meme here who what's
underneath this mask is actually just
the same lessons that we're learning. We
all know if we've ever done any machine
learning um putting a code generation in
some kind of harness around data that
tells it whether or not it's moving in
the right direction is very similar to
putting any kind of model in any kind of
uh training data process.
Oh uh if you want to there I did make a
notebook for this class that is uh kind
of gives the scaffold and the core
workflow. I don't go into all the
different lessons I learned. Uh if you
want that, you definitely come to come
to my course. Uh but if you want this
notebook, it's kind of does a basic
barebones run through of the of this
reranker I I made with auto research.
And I have this search experiments
library which I'm going to use a lot
which I have been using a lot to just
play around with agentic search ideas.
So, um, people probably know that we
what an agent is, but just to give you a
sense, like we the first time we ever
used chat GPT, it was kind of cute
because we knew it was fancy
autocomplete. But imagine there was
fancy autocomplete that could also ask
you to call a tool on its behalf and you
gave it results and then it figured out
how to fancy think about the results and
do fancy autocomplete to ask you to call
another tool. And that's basically a
loop, right? Uh you could think about an
agent as kind of you we could put
reasoning in here or whatever, but it's
investigating. It can it can manipulate
a file system. This is a coding agent,
which is probably the most typical form
that we think about when we're using
cloud code or something. Edit code.
There's tools to manipulate the
environment and it's just sitting in the
loop calling these things until it's
done doing tool calling and comes back
to the user to do something else, right?
And there's nothing special about coding
tools. We also have, and this is
honestly, I would say, and maybe I'm
biased by this, but right after coding,
the number two thing that people build
agents for, bespoke agents seems to be
search. Uh, it seems to be the rag
people have moved from building chunks
and vectors to realizing I need to build
a harness that's going to call search
tools to gather results. And I need to
put a lot of what I teach in my class is
I need to put the right constraints
around a harness so that the agent knows
how to find relevant results. Uh and it
can make a good evaluation of what's
relevant or not. And so we have like
search tools that maybe we have multiple
search tools. One calls BM25 and one
calls an embedding or we wrap that all
together. There's a million design
points that we could play around with.
Maybe we attach an LLM judge to this
thing as a tool so it can help us
evaluate search. Um, but we have this
almost as like the new programming
framework for how we should think about
a lot of tasks that we're doing is
attaching tools to an agentic loop and
then constraining this with feedback so
it doesn't go off the rails. It doesn't
do the thing like uh open claw deleting
all your emails or whatever.
So, uh, like I said, I like to show
code. And of course, if you wanted to do
an hello world today of of using it of
using OpenAI, you would do something
like this. And uh, I'm not doing this in
chat GPT. So, of course, it's going to
it doesn't necessarily have access to a
search tool because I haven't given it a
search tool. This is just through the
API. And if I trick it a little bit or I
push it a little bit, it will
hallucinate blog posts that I've never
written. So we all know that's like
that's this is uh this is the reason we
people invented rag and that kind of
thing.
Um, I can create a Python function
that's just search. And a lot of times
when you use agentic frameworks, they're
just figuring out how to basically tell
the agent that it has a Python function
that or a function that it can call and
it can request calls for and you'll
serialize the results back to it. So I
make this search and there's some search
over my blog articles
and uh we can give it a set of tools.
which is basically an OpenAI tool spec,
a schema to call a tool, and there's a
specific protocol for calling that. And
when you do this, you actually will get
a request to call a tool. Uh there's a
reasoning item. If you do a little bit
extra, you could actually ask it to show
the reasoning, which is like the
thinking at the in chat GPT. Uh but you
can also do something like, you know,
hey, there's a search call search
keywords BM25.
uh it knows the arguments, it knows the
parameters, it knows the name of the
function. Usually uh quite often the doc
string becomes the description of the
function. All of these bits become part
of the prompt, right?
And all of this sits in a loop. So when
people call the talk about the agentic
search uh tool calling loop, it's really
literally that call to open AI and then
loop over a bunch of function calls,
find the ones, find figure out how to
satisfy them, append the result back to
the context and just like continue to
append to this context until there's no
more tool calls. Uh people have go crazy
building insane frameworks, but you can
literally just do this relatively
straight easy straightforward if you
just go straight to the open AI um
OpenAI uh API directly
and it works. So if I do this, this is a
blog post I wrote last week where if I
there's BM25, there's an embedding tool
like this is BM25 and embedding
directly. If I give these as tools to an
agent and say find relevant e-commerce
products, it will do a better job than
those tools by themselves.
Uh, and you can see if we do GPT, this
is all GPT5 mini to save my uh, token
budget. If I do spend the money and just
do a GPT5 run, I get a much much better
NDCG.
And this begins to make you realize
like, wow, is the future of search just
giving agents simple tools and and
somehow figuring out how to manipulate
the agent to give me relevant results?
Um, maybe it's less about search engines
retrieval. And I know there's going to
be a talk tomorrow with uh Renee and
Trey and and John Hamler. They're
actually going to talk about that. So,
it's really interesting result. And if
you haven't played with aic search,
that's why a lot of people are really
excited about it.
Um and it's even to the point where
these really complex data uh these
really complex tests browse comp plus is
like something that requires 30 hops in
a search engine to be able to solve a
very specific factual problem. You
notice that like accuracy 50% BM25 is
not far below the leader and the leader
this is in a specific paper revisiting
text ranking and deep research the
leader is uh on this GPT OSS model that
gets close to GPD5 with Quinn is
actually just BM25 with a with a
re-ranker and I thought that was really
interesting. So, we're not are we
getting to this world where we don't
like what is our job going to be is a
big open question.
But I'm not going to go down that rabbit
hole. I'm going to go down a different
rabbit hole. And that rabbit hole is
called auto research.
So, um, we can't necessarily put the
agent in the loop yet behind every
search query. Maybe in a couple years
we'll be able to do that. Uh, but we
can't, you know, we don't have 50
millisecond search agents or anything
crazy like that. Although people are
actively working on that. There's
companies like SID.AI
that are actively just working on
building faster, more focused agents for
specific domains that all they do is
search. So, it's possible it could come.
But instead, what if we had an
agentcoded ranker? And that's really
what I'm going to talk about. So whereas
before I'm attaching all of these tools
to an agent and letting an agent call
it,
when I have an agent coded ranker, as
you'll see, I don't know why there's two
query corrections, but we're putting all
of these. We're sort of thinking about
it more as dependency injection. We're
like taking these dependencies and
saying, "Hey code, you have access to a
BM25 search. You have access to a vector
search. You have access to this thing
that can do query corrections." And then
you're going through the path and the
and trying to do ask it to do code
manipulation with these Lego pieces to
build something that's going to
optimally rank search results.
Um so we start with source code and if
we could just wands here by the way wans
just like Trey had is is the easy to
load in a collab notebook uh data set
from Wayfair. Wayfair annotated data
set. And you can see here all I'm doing
is I have a query or I have a a function
called rerank wands. It's taking a query
and then the rest of the signature are
the quote unquote tools that I'm
injecting the Lego pieces that it can
use to build a better ranker. And I
start with something naive. This is
actually the BM25 I found on um that
seemed to optimize the Wayfair data set
a while ago just by like randomly
searching for the title and description
boosts. Um so it's a reasonable
baseline.
Um and it returns the the top uh results
that it fetch back. And you can see this
function fielded BM25 has some bells and
whistles like it can take it can take
weights like boosts if you're familiar
with elastic search solar kind of
boosted syntax. It can change to the
specific operator. You could decide just
to search the title just to search the
description whatever you want to do. So
this is our starter code
and really what we're going to go
through in this agentic loop is hypo
loop is hypothesize code changes. We're
gonna edit code.
We're gonna evaluate.
And we're just gonna keep doing this.
And so we've got this uh we've got this
agentic loop that has different tools
that we'll see that focus on basically
the relevance task. Um and all we're
doing is editing code, asking for evals,
getting like seeing how queries are
impacted up or down one way or the
other.
Um, and you could of course go and use
you could do this if you're people are
telling me I should use pi. I've heard
that's really good. You could use cloud
code. But when I I was doing this about
6 months ago, I just figured it's
actually not that hard to write your own
coding agent. Um all you have to do is
create a tool that takes this basically
applies a patch and has a specific
structure for doing a search and replace
in a file. So this is the tool that
applies a patch and then the patch is
basically structured like this. So this
is when you this is a pyantic class
which is just another way of organizing
a a schema and all it is is an anchor.
It's like search from anchor until the
block until and take some action.
Um, and then there's some I think
missing is like the actual text which
might be which might replace something.
So all it is is a search and replace and
all it is is like hey apply this and
then save this to fi to the file system
or something. Uh there's a million other
things coding agents do but like the
actual editing and manipulation of code
like you can set that up yourself. It's
not that hard.
Yeah. And so you can see all this is
doing is a search and replace um and you
know doing a bunch of other things. And
then it will save the code and return
the source code back to the back to the
agent so it has something to work on.
And then of course we have uh a tool for
running evals and on a specific training
set to uh to get a like what is the NDCG
what quality metrics are there of these
different queries. Uh so training data
here just means the agent can see these
queries and how they're impacted by the
change.
Yeah, I I mentioned this. There are so
many like these cloud code and other
things have so many ways to inject hooks
like programmatic ways of validating
things before and after that you could
do this in those tools as well. And I
started to go down that path but I
realized uh it was going to take a lot
of time.
[clears throat] Yeah. So the full set of
tools that we get, you know, there's a
bunch of code editing tools. Apply a
patch, revert to changes if something
bad happens. Um and eval related things
run evals run the reranker on a single
query to see what happens and then
search wands that's that under uh well
that should say fielded BM25 but that's
the I also give the underlying tools
that are injected into the code I'm I'm
uh I'm creating to let it inspect and
figure out what those things do.
So that's the basic framework and what I
ended up doing in the search experiments
repo is I just because I don't need to
write a million for loops basically the
bare bones are identical I just started
to put all this in like how I wanted to
the variance of this in a YAML file so I
have a system prompt uh that talks about
the codegen task I the search tools are
the things that are going to get
injected into the code the Lego pieces
um uh and I'll get to some of these are
the things like training fraction like
how large a training set is and whatnot.
So I just configure what I need and then
I can play with these different values.
I don't know maybe I could auto research
this as well.
Um yeah and these are just the search
tools the system prompt. Um lots of
things like don't rename the function
otherwise it won't be able to call it.
And uh yeah, and then this is just the
code calling. And we're doing the same
exact tool calling loop as before. Uh
just now we're doing uh coding. So all
of this this whole loop is is exactly
the same.
[clears throat] Yeah. So yeah, basically
what I said, we're just proposing
updates and returning the current code.
So after one run and I won't bore you
with hundreds of lines once I do this I
get this nicely documented function and
it tells me all about what it's doing uh
or for recall I I also lets to do phrase
and it does some embedding search u it
does all kinds of nice things [snorts]
um and then I can start again with this
code so I've done one round of this I
could do another round I could say now
your starter code. So is this thing it's
almost like compaction
um except it nicely in some ways it's
nice you could call it a feature or a
bug that it loses the context from
before. Maybe it's a feature because
it's not biased by those things. Uh
maybe it's a bug because there are a lot
of things that were tried that it
doesn't need to try again.
But we could do this with another run
and we could just I have these commands.
I just literally just run this from the
command line uh telling us to do this on
this data set and do it for 10 rounds.
And what happens? So I have this nice
graph. We can start as the BM25. Right
off the bat, it jumps up pretty highly.
It kind of wanders around. It doesn't
really get too far from that 575, which
is a little disappointing. It just kind
of wins something out right away.
And when you look at the code it made,
it looks pretty suspicious.
So this is a very common theme uh that
happens very like I would say every time
I teach my class uh I'll I'll I'll show
some kind of relevant strategy and
someone will say look I just got quad
code to optimize it. Well, uh, without
thinking about it and they'll be like,
"Yeah, I made the NDCG go up or
something." And I I say, "Well, if you
look at the code, does it look like a
bunch of like if this query then return
these results?" Um, because these agents
do like to cheat and it doesn't even
talk about it in terms of cheating. Uh,
it's like product head terms. It's like
it's defensible. It's trying to defend
its uh, its great work.
Yeah. The other problem is it tends to
get really long and verbose. So it's
like now we're at 400 lines after one
round. So it can get like pretty nasty.
So I do a couple of thing. Uh and then
when you actually look at the data uh I
should say test data uh when you
actually look at the data that's not in
um not in the training data, it actually
is a bit messier. It actually goes up
and down even more.
Okay, so that's the barebones auto
research. And now we're going to talk
about some slightly less bad audit
research. Um, and [clears throat] I'm
going to talk about basically the
lessons I've learned doing this. And
like I said before, they really mirror
the lessons of doing any machine
learning. Um, just with a different kind
of model. So they say deep re deep uh
deep learning is a universal function
approximator. It's really just linear
algebra that's being optimized. And now
we're this is just a different sort of
putty that's being optimized but in the
same sort of harness more or less.
[snorts] So the very first thing that's
that I have done when I do this is I add
what I call guards which are basically
reasons for rejecting a patch. And there
are two things I do. One is I actually
have a validation check. So the training
data the LM can see every query the
change in any query specific query like
red shoes went up brown shoes went down.
Um the [clears throat] validation data
though all it sees is whether the
average NDCG of this set went up or down
and in order for a change to get
accepted the validation has to increase
by some margin. I think it's 0.002 or
0.03 like the average NDCG. So it not
only has to find something it likes on
the training data, it also has to like
it's gated by a validation check that it
has very minimal visibility on. And then
I also just have a straight up like ask
a GPT5 mini model, does this look
overfit? It's okay if there's stop
words, but it's not okay if there's like
actual product terms. Like I give it
some prompt definition of does this code
look overfit? [snorts]
Uh, and all that's doing is like in that
apply patch just like hey before you
accept this check these guardrails if
there's an error message throw an error
and this error will just become part of
the context. So it'll go back to the L
and be like uhoh I made a boo boo and
then it will try to iterate uh and try
to improve that.
The other thing I do is I add a maximum
code size and all of the but I will say
all the descriptions of these guards
also get appended to the system prompt
along with all of the uh different
components like the search tools and
whatnot. So it knows about these things
beforehand.
So when we do this yeah so we'll propose
an update reject with an error.
And now when we do this this is how the
agent cheats in a slightly different
way. It's producing very compact code
where it's like let me use oh you only
want me to have 120 character width and
like uh you know 10 high uh in terms of
the and this is the patch constraint not
only in total code the total code could
be larger.
Um and you you kind of need to figure
out what this is.
The nice thing is we have a much
prettier curve where [clears throat]
it's gradually going up and we get
higher. So we get closer to like 0.59 in
terms of NDCG. So just below 0.59
um and the final code. Yeah, here you
saw the final code when I get this
explained by chat GPT. So what I do my
uh very intelligent uh thoughtful
process is to paste the code into chat
GPT and ask for a nicely commented
verbose form of this and it will explain
what it's doing. It's running fielded
BM25 search uh modified B stronger
title. It's it's doing an embedding
search. It's doing RRF, so reciprocal
rank fusion to bring it together. And it
does some kind of extra bonus for when
they're in both sets. And that somehow
seems to do a pretty good job on the
final metrics.
What's interesting about this is I know
being in search that there are new and
innovative ways people are doing hybrid
search besides RRF. But the one
interesting thing it's doing is it's
really picking the least offensive
solution to a hybrid search problem.
It's not necessarily like being
innovative. And if you think about that,
we kind of like that about OLS. We're
not too happy when it does surprising
things. So the fact that it did this
sort of obvious thing is is not is
either a feature or a bug. And it's like
in you can think about the LM, it's
ingested this giant corpus of
information. So when it sees the search
problem, that's how it's going to solve
it.
So that's one like thing I've learned
about this whole process.
Um, and so the next thing I was really
looking at was how do I get it to be a
bit more creative and explore novel
solutions?
And one thing I could do of course is
give it a lot of different Lego pieces.
This is almost like classic feature
engineering. I could inject like uh for
like a query categorization. I could
inject a rewrite. I could inject a
commute distance
or I could give it really basic tools
and somehow give it you this is how
encoding agents we use skills. I could
give it a lot of skills to say like if
you want to do if you want to do query
uh rewriting call use call LLM to do
this specific thing. Um and really what
I'm talking about here is a cursive
dimensionality problem. I'm giving it
all of these things to try and the LLM
has minimal context to explore all the
possibilities. If I give the LM two
things to try, it will um it will like
maybe do a pretty good job. If I give it
10 things to try, it's going to quickly
exhaust its context trying everything
out. [snorts]
Um and so one approach I had was that
search there, I could inject the results
of a previous run uh that was entirely
focused on like the combining lexical
and embedding search and then just add
one thing. And so it's almost like it's
hid I'm hiding the details of a past
optimization and then I could say oh by
the way now you can rewrite the query.
So it's waste it's like focusing on the
rewrite part.
Um it's almost in terms of it's almost
like an ensemble in a way. It's like
focused on one part of the problem. And
this is just what it looks like in a
YAML. Like there are it's under the hood
it's doing the same stuff it was doing
before but the agent just sees a search
tool and it's going to use that.
Uh, and this actually is pretty
interesting because if I just give it
all of the um [clears throat] if I give
it all of the tools, it does just adding
a rewrite tool, it very takes a long
time to get to a reasonable approach.
Um, if I get if I do my approach and
just hide the retrieval behind search,
then you're going to have this case, it
actually gets higher and it does it much
quicker. Um, it's sort of cheating
because I'm starting with something that
was optimized, but that's a that's a a
big change.
So, I've got 6 minutes left.
The the other crazy thing I started to
do. So that that was one lesson is like
I don't know the right answer to this
but you have to really think about the
amount the scope of the problem you're
giving an LLM to solve and whether or
not you're going to like minimize that
to a narrow problem or sol boil the
entire ocean. And for example this
morning Trey focused on the query
understanding problem. You could imagine
having an agent that like holds the
ranking still but focuses on query
understanding or vice versa. And that in
some ways is more uh might be a better
strategy than trying to here's the
entire world of search go crazy.
Um so just to finish off the next thing
I did that was a little crazy uh and
literally had this idea a few two few
days ago. So MS Marco is a passage
ranking data set. It's a question answer
and there's a well-known BM25 baseline
for it. And so what I did is I said,
well, I'm going to give starter code
that is just BM25 with the raw stats
like term frequency, document frequency,
all the stuff a search engine has, and
I'm going to say auto research, make a
better BM25.
And you know, this is on the MS Marco
data set. So it's got these questions
and answers, uh, you know, looks like
that.
And so could I put in BM25 on this
passage check and get a better BM25? And
I actually gave it specific hints to
explore like, hey, maybe these things
are reasonable hypotheses of like what
could reasonably change uh change
things.
Um could we find collocations, you know,
play with the BM25 parameters?
Uh I also gave it a tool to look at past
uh runs if it wanted to find other
inspiration. So actually to help it,
this is the other part of like f
narrowing its focus so it's not wasting
context is actually gave it hypothesis
to play around with
um and I was really impressed. So I have
this mini Marco which is like a smaller
MS Marco and it started to make
improvements on the full data set. Um
but and I was this is where I was really
spending money because I was like this
is a hard problem. I'm going to give it
the erdos
solver problem levels.
But w I tried this out these ideas out
on the full MS Marco data set. So I went
from a small data set to a bigger one
and it kind of pl plateaued.
So this is another big problem in
machine learning which you can overfit
to your validation data. So you have a
in my case I had like a a subset like
mini marco
uh that was randomly sampled but for
some reason in this random sample it
made sense to make medicine and vacation
a stop word
um
uh and that doesn't really help in the
general data set. In fact it's might be
harmful.
But I still think I found interesting
results because I did have that one bump
up where it's stop word phrase BM25
where things improved. And really what
it was doing was adding stop words uh
and doing this like some kind of biogram
weighing. So it actually boost based on
taking biograms out of the query and
doing some kind of getting the term
frequency of the biogram and just like
weighing based on the occurrence of that
term frequency which I thought was kind
of interesting.
And really where I want to leave things
just with all of these different
experiments that I've run is this isn't
magic. Really what's happening here is
if you think about this whole process
and all the experiments I've run I'm
providing a lot of inspiration and
guidance.
It's very similar to AI. I mean it is AI
coding. I'm giving inspiration and
guidance. I'm setting the I'm setting
the boundaries of the agent's focus so
that it doesn't get into like a cursive
dimensionality problem.
I'm putting in the guardrail so it
doesn't go off in the weeds. I'm really
like defining the harness in a way that
makes sure it doesn't do embarrassing
things. And I'm also giving inspiration
of hey maybe these biogram maybe finding
statistically significant biograms would
be useful.
And then the LLM. I mean, when I worked
at Shopify and Reddit, there were like
many culde-sacs of a of a optimization
problem I wish I could have gone down
besides the like first thought I had or
first two or three thoughts I had. It
can really exhaustively explore
everything especially within its
inspiration of knowledge. And I haven't
even like we attaching a search engine
to this. I like to a web search engine
would be another really um interesting
thing.
And this is kind of analogous I think to
how you see like you get there's a lot
of press. So Aerdos problems are these
like impossible math problems to solve
and there they get a lot of press
whenever an LLM was part of the
solution. Really what's happening is
that uh LLMs are being used to find
analogous
uh proofs in similar papers like that
people have just forgotten about. So you
have kind of a proof solver and you have
this amazing LLM query search engine and
it can like find this like random
obscure 1980 paper and be like oh that
actually applies to this. Um and there's
a similar I think parallel to what we're
doing is we're uh we're providing
inspiration. We're guiding this agent.
Um but at the end of the day it's using
the existing corpus of human knowledge.
I'm not sure it's like being super
creative or we want it to be super
creative yet. Uh but that's I think the
way to think about using these kinds of
techniques. And that's that's it. That's
the talk. So I know I'm exactly on time.
So I don't know if I have time for a
question.
[applause]
You are just on time before I pull out
my 10-minute warning. So we have 10
minutes for questions.
And we already have one
>> early by
could have gone slower.
>> This is great stuff. Doug, uh you talked
about the possibilities of freezing
ranking and looking at query intent and
it seems like that would be really
promising especially in the query
classification space. Um curious what
you did in terms of trying to provide
tools to understand the catalog or the
corpus. seems like that could also be
really promising especially in the
e-commerce space around understanding
where the taxonomy what that looks like
user guides that kind of thing. Did you
look at that at all?
>> So I was mostly being corpus relatively
corpus independent. Um so I haven't
looked at that. I think what Trey was
doing was probably more in that regard
because I think he was actually and this
is actually a lesson that comes up a lot
in our course is uh these very corpus
spec like there's in information
retrieval research you'll find some
approach that is broadly applicable or
improves things a little bit but then
what really matters is like what's in
your data set so um I would say this is
probably more in this in in the in the
tradition of of research in the IR sense
But I do think I I I don't have
evidence, but I'm almost certain that
that is like how what would make
meaningful games on like one specific
data set.
>> Hi, thank you so much for your talk. Uh
I had some questions about your
evaluation harness. Did you use any
framework? Uh did you use any golden
data sets? You know, did you use binary
or scalar evaluation? Any ground truth
etc.
>> Yeah. So all it is all it is uh as the
specific data set. So Wayfair's data set
comes with its own labels. So I'm just
using those to compute NDCG. Um yeah I
have like a library I use for my class
that computes NDCG and runs different
search strategies and that kind of
thing. So that's basically it. And the
harness is basically like a tool that
runs over all of a s a randomly sampled
sled of training data and returning
whether or not uh what changed like
which how the queries went up or down.
Um everything I didn't really use any
frameworks or anything other than just
OpenAI's API.
>> One question from the online audience.
If we implement this in production, how
would this pass performance and
scalability tests?
>> That's a great question. I mean, I would
think for so scalability is a different
scalability is a different thing, but I
would think for performance
uh in the same way that you we're gating
on validation improvements, I think you
would want to gate on performance as
well. Like for example, if you were
calling this fielded BM fielded this
fielded BM25 thing um was actually
issuing an elastic search query or some
query to the backend system and the
optimal solution called it 10 times well
that might not be acceptable but it may
also serve as inspiration. So it's like
oh well maybe I can figure out a some of
this is just for inspiration too. So
it's like maybe if I took this I could
figure out a way to actually do this in
a bit more fast fast way uh just with
like a single call to the search engine.
>> Uh you talked about providing some
guidelines and guardrails to prevent it
from cheating, right? Um there's like
>> if you think about search overall
there's like a whole I mean across both
what Trey talked about and you talking
about there's a whole host of different
things you can do to cheat. like how do
you think about it's it's a long tale of
cheating methods, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Sometimes that you you worry about it as
being smarter than you.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Uh great question. I mean, uh I guess I
don't know what I don't know. So there
could always be something. Uh but
generally the main thing has been
looking at the performance on data that
wasn't even like not even in the
validation or the training set at all.
So this mini Marco MS Marco example
where I was playing with BM25
um that was uh yeah that that that was
eye opening for that regard just because
it's useful to have a valuation set
that's like the the agent has no idea
about it um so that you can understand
the sort of how it's actually
progressing on a problem. So it's really
like three layers of validation sets.
There's training and it's almost like
context context engineering because it's
progressive disclosure. There's the
training set which we let the LLM know
all about. That's like its little
sandbox like the you know for those who
use cupid it's its little like tuning
environment and then there's the
validation set which is it can only it
can still see the overall NDCG changes
and then there's the entire a larger
universe that's important to hold out
even further from the entire process. Um
I don't know if that tests or what but
like to monitor the system to make sure
it's not uh data is not le you know
data's that's a system set you want data
never to leak into the process so that
you can sort of see if it's starting to
degrade.
>> Marvelous talk Doug.
How does this technique compare to just
throwing a genetic algorithm at it with
your building blocks or a parameter
sweep at it? Would it cost less to just
sweep all the possible parameters than
the tokens you spend?
>> Uh quite possibly. Yeah. I mean for
parameters definitely. So like if you
just wanted to tweak the boost and BM25
parameters
um like I gave a talk several haststacks
ago about basian algorithms but honestly
I think it's underrated just to do
random searches uh because a lot of the
basian optimization is just mostly the
first best random search tends to be
pretty good. Uh for genetic algorithms I
honestly don't have a tremendous a lot a
lot a lot of experience myself with
that. Um, I would be really curious.
Yeah, I I I think the uh wherever Tim
Allison is, he might have a good answer
to that. Oh, there he is.
>> Yeah,
>> random's great.
>> What's that?
>> Random search.
>> Random search is great. Yeah, random
search over
>> genetic gets you a little further.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you for the inspiration. Just
curious about the graph where you showed
it basically summarized the technique.
So did you use like GPD to summarize
what the coding is like? How did you
come up with these?
>> Oh, these labels.
>> Yes.
>> Uh so so at the end of each run I think
there is a so you can ask it when you
ask an agent for a response. Uh it you
can ask it to be structured. So
basically it conforms to a schema. So at
the end of that like tool calling loop
it said make sure your response is
something I call final message. And all
it's doing is like giving a rundown of
what happened. Um, but I also think like
when it applies a patch, I ask it to
also like I didn't show this, but I
asked it to also explain what it thinks
it's doing. So I have like logs and
things that are tracing this. And
something I didn't talk about is just
sort of like agentic tracing and like
walking through like basically the logs
of what everything the agent is
thinking. Um, but there's some of that
too in there where it's just like
generating what it like I have this
hypothesis. I think it'll impact these
queries and I think it will it I'm
summarizing it with this this summary
and that kind of thing. So yeah, so
those are long story short those are LLM
generated of like what it did.
>> Thank you.
>> More questions for D. Yes,
>> a great talk. Um so it's looking at this
mainly ranking problem is already
looking at the local optimization
problem because you're given the search
candidate just to rank up the best that
you can but if we're looking at the
search as a global problem what uh Trey
talk about in the morning uh in terms of
the query understanding so that you have
the entire corpus to search your
indexing so I'm wondering how much
opportunity it is contributing and have
a good search is coming from the query
understanding versus ranking.
>> Yeah, that's a great question. I think
one way to think so all pieces in search
contribute. Um I have been in search
since 2013
and I haven't seen a lot of like maybe
this will happen but I haven't seen a
lot of like parts of search that
suddenly become irrelevant. Um but so
there is usually a set of queries that
you have really solid query
understanding on their attributes you
understand well. Your content really
supports them well. Um you've done a
really good job of like when I did
fashion e-commerce it was like we
understood when something was uh a top
or a bottom or we started to understand
different attributes of dresses and
things. Um and so at that level like you
absolutely want to use query
understanding. that's like your the best
one of the best things that you have.
But then there's this like long tail and
this uh almost think about it as layers
like if your query understanding can
catch the query great and you trust your
query understanding that's what you want
to do. But your your query understanding
is never going to be perfect and it's
never going to comprehensively high
quality get everything. So then the next
the next thing is like all of the like
sort of like the ranking you just
generally want to be better. It's sort
of like a rising tide lifts all boats.
Um and it's also not mutually exclusive
because query understanding can be an
input to this because you can rank
things based on your understanding of a
query. So uh you might care more about
getting in the right category than you
do like the color correctly or the
material or there may be ways of
thinking about material in a ranking
sense. So it's like suede is a kind of
leather. So you might want to show suede
first above leather uh and that's kind
of a ranking problem but then not show
like cotton for example. So uh so so
they they really contribute to each
other and it's hard to give like a one
is definitely better than the other but
like I would say query understanding is
definitely underrated a lot of the time
outside of the search community because
everyone's like oh a vector embedding
will just solve this problem when really
vectors don't necessarily have a notion
of match of like this is in the set of
relevant results and not and often
negative experiences people have with
vector search are like why is this even
in this in the search results results at
all. If you think about vectors, vectors
are all ranking in a way.
>> All right, we have to wrap it now. So
yeah, but we'll have more time at the
Cardinal Hall reception this evening. So
thanks again, Doug, for this talk.
[applause]